Hi again, and thank you so much for lending me your inbox for screaming. I can't tell you how much I appreciate this. Anyway, here goes:
## Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaggggghhh!

_Never_ have my characters mutinied so completely or violently against the story I thought I was writing. I'm not even sure there's anything left of my original idea.

I _thought_ what I was going to be writing was a brief, goofy romp, set a few years after LBW. Now discovered as a legendary Hero, Link has been working as a public face of Hylian Royalty. Town has monster problems? Or an ancient curse? Or just needs to feel appreciated by HRH Zelda Eunomia Hyrule IV? The Crown sends Link to solve it. He also appears in a number of big fancy annual ceremonies, and that's all well and good until a bit of magic goes astray hours before one such event and he's changed into a cat. He and friends -- especially Zelda, Irene, and Gulley, with much briefer appearances by Ravio, and Hilda -- struggle to figure out how to turn him back while also keeping to an ethos of "the show must go on" and this all is appropriately ridiculous. Along the way Link realizes he's been over-working himself and needs some time off, he and friends figure out how to change him back in time, he goes on a vacation afterward, lesson learned, comedy ends happily.

It's all turned to angst and everyone's just miserable. It's also all turned _shippy_, which I am uncertain as to my ability to write generally, and am _extra_-diffident about when it comes to the ship I have unwittingly boarded. Beyond those unexpected changes to tone and characters, the story's gone and sprouted Elaborate Plot... but only just _enough_ Elaborate Plot to give everyone problems without any clues to resolving them. I'm not even sure Link is the main character anymore!  Stories taking sudden left turns is common, I know, I know, but this one has taken so many and all to places where I'm just not sure of myself.

I think it all started unraveling when I tried foreshadowing the cat thing. "Wouldn't it be fun to give LBW Link a very cattish personality from the outset?" I thought. "What could go wrong?" I thought. So I started with the gimmes: love of naps, love of sunbeams. Then I made him an enormous drama queen of the "You _Kick_ Miette?!" variety and that was delightful to imagine. It also had unexpected consequences. Link's initial problem was that he's overworked being a big famous hero of legend, but a duty to represent the Crown means he's severely constrained in how he can act "on the job." So now he's both overworked _and_ must suppress his melodramatic personality most the time. It also burdens his friendship with Zelda. Decorum blocks him from being himself when he sees her on professional occasions which, since she also has an "Always On" job, is all occasions. Their public roles straight-jacketing their friendship creates a third problem to solve -- they deserve more friend time! --and also moves a lot of the story's initial interactions to establish his cattishness to Gulley and Irene. With Gulley this largely winds up being him complaining about his workload and getting gentle teasing back about his love for lazing. With Irene, though, the cat motif suddenly took on a different character. And, well...

## Irene/Link

I don't think these two idiot workaholics realize they're perfect for each other, but they are. They definitely don't notice they've already stumbled 78% of the way into a relationship, but they have. They might see it better if they didn't both have so much traveling to do, but as it is Link comes back from Royal duties, having disappeared into remote corners of the country for weeks, and immediately bee-lines to the Witch's hut to say hello, elf-ears perked up and walking faster than normal. When Irene's out traveling herself he drops small souvenirs on her doorstep: sometimes its magic baubles, usually its parts of monsters (carefully bottled!) for potion research. But while the dead birds on door steps and showing up out of nowhere barn cat dressing is immense fun to write, the more important finding is that they share a deep working partnership; Irene still gives him lifts when he's tired or has a very long way to travel, and makes sure he's stocked on red and green potion. In addition to the monster parts he drops off, Link goes out of his way to talk up her potions when he's traveling abroad so she gets new customers. He also made her her own cauldron to conclude his blacksmithing apprenticeship. The practical aspects of this are important, small practical gestures mean a lot to them, but it's not strictly transactional. They're each motivated to do the favors in part because they're awe of the other: Link isn't only talking Irene up to do her a favor, he also just plain can't believe how ambitious and dedicated Irene is to her craft, and how impressive the advances she's made in potion brewing are. Going the other direction, Irene admires how resourceful Link is to be set out into Hyrule with a few leased items and barely any instruction and to turn that into a full complement of adventuring gear, and that he can put that resourcefulness off again and again. And though they're terrible workaholics individually, put together they give each other a space to rest. This too is a meeting of practical aid and personal attachment. Each can do things which save the other substantial time in their work -- Irene can transport Link in hours what would take him days on foot, Link can help source monster parts that would take Irene considerable time to hunt and track down on her own -- and then with that newly freed time, a tendency to pry the other away from their work and take a break now that they've showed up and saved them so much time. I don't know how compelling this sounds as summary, but it's compelling in my head, and I think I'm stuck here now.[^defense]

If they're so compelling a ship, why aren't they already together? For Link, I-- don't have a good answer why he wouldn't have raised the subject of his feelings, save maybe that he has not figured the obvious out yet, but that feels more like a convenient excuse I'm making than an in-character reason. I know Irene's answer, though; she's afraid that if they were to become a couple, his reputation would swallow her up and to the rest of the world she'd just be the sage who fell in love with Link this iteration of the cycle, never thought of as a talented witch again. She already has this problem in miniature; half of Hyrule knows her more for the two weeks she was a Sage than all the things she's done since. And while Link is dear to Irene, so are her ambitions to be recognized as a witch _par excellence_.  She'd never cut off contact with him to pursue her dream, but would she keep things strictly at close friendship? Maybe. She isn't sure. And since she isn't sure she doesn't raise the subject and things stay how they are, and once again the hypertrophied sense of mythic history in this Hyrule makes the people actually in the myth unhappy.[^irene_hypertrophiedmyth] 

## Taking Action
Unlike Link and Zelda, though, Irene doesn't feel obligated to grin and bear the box she's put in. I don't think this difference is anything to do with who is more pro-active or whatever, but rather what those purported obligations she's been given look like. For Link and Zelda being the hero or the wise princess carries an understanding that you're going to help people, which -- being good-hearted -- it's harder to say no to. For Irene the expectation is much more akin to a straightforward "have everyone forget all the stuff you're actually proud of" and who would take that deal? She sees how it grinds Link down, though, and if Link won't question the fairness of his being worked to exhaustion, she will. Only, getting people to take your questioning seriously when an entire government and religion is built around two chosen people doing all the work and has been for decades is a tall ask.[^cycle_age] She petitions the priest in the sanctuary. She gets an audience with Zelda who is sympathetic but thinks this really is their fate and duty.[^fair_to_zelda] And when no one else will listen, Irene turns to deep magic and meddling. 

Exactly what that magic is I'm unsure and this might change in drafts. But for argument's sake, let's say one night, not long after her audience with Zelda and while Link is out in the remote wild corners of Hyrule on another Royal errand, she finds her way to the most powerful of the great fairies or something and once she gets there, the Greatest Fairy warns Irene that what she is asking the Fairy to work may not come out right, because it is far above even her vaunted pay grade. Irene accepts the risk and pleads not to be known as a sage when her witchcraft is so much more important, and for Link to have a life where he can get adequate rest. The Greatest Fairy nods, the world shimmers, Irene flies home and falls asleep.

## Switched
Irene wakes up in an enormous bed far nicer than anything she has ever seen before. Zelda wakes up sore and tired, camped under a broad-leafed tree in a glen somewhere she doesn't recognize. Link doesn't wake, but sleeps until noon, curled up in a little ball atop a stack of books on potion brewing, bathing in the sunlight that streams through the window of the witch's cottage. None of Irene's problems have actually been solved, because although she is now known in all the country as Witch-Crown Princess of Hyrule, which must certainly count as being known for witchcraft, she's also under the yoke of distorted expectations she tried to get overworked Link out of. Link certainly has a life where he can rest adequately, but is also a kitty cat, which comes with considerable downsides and disabilities that make it a bad trade. And since there always has to be a hero, Zelda picks up where Link left off, and -- not that she knows what's going on -- needs to complete whatever task he had been assigned when he departed on his mission.

I don't have a coherent account of what happens from here, but I do have some more scattered bullet points with question marks on all of them.  
 - I think the first week after the big switch, Irene is frantically trying to figure out how to undo this all while also staying atop her new duties as a severely overworked Princess. She runs herself into the ground, gets sick, and her Gram, though she's not her Gram in this weird universe, arrives to treat the ailing royal and brings along her cat, which is how Irene and Link get re-united and she gets her first clue as to the scope of what's happened.
 - As much as Link and Irene's relationship is embedded in the context of doing nice things for the other, I think one of Link's character arcs is accepting that he doesn't _have_ to be doing at all times, and that he's still worth something when he's not being useful to his friends and loved ones. (The good news is I think being a cat for a spell is a very good way to learn that lesson) 
 - At the same time, part of me is attached to the idea that even when he's on accidental mandatory cat vacation, he can't help but stumble into adventure. I think he might one evening bump into some rats in the cellar of the castle and overhear them talking about a plan to find and steal three legendary wedges of golden cheddar? I love how silly that is, but I think it might actually be at cross-purposes to his character arc in the last bullet point, and as much as I want this to be a story with room for levity the rest of me worries that might be too goofy?
 - As for his relationship with Irene, I think the striking thing is how much _doesn't_ change? He settles in at the castle and assists her as much as a cat can in various Witch and Princess duties (mostly the witch ones) and meows mightily when she starts overworking herself and enforces breaks. And when he's been working too hard gathering information from outside the castle for her, or dropping too many monster parts by her door, she pulls him over and insists he take a sunbeam nap with her. And it's different because how could being a cat not be a big problem, but I think they both also take some reassurance that -- no matter how weird things get or how severe their problems -- having the other's back will never change.
 - I have no idea how they all get back to normal and definitely need to think something up.
 - Irene isn't a bad person, she's great, but I don't think she's an effective ruler. This seems like it should be thread that generates a lot of plot but I cannot get this to go right now. Maybe something will come to me.
 - Irene definitely is unhappy being even more publicly scrutinized and misunderstood than she already was, and there's a long long wellspring of reluctant princess tropes to draw on here, but I'm usually not a fan of those being the _main_ focus of a story, so I think those need to happen in the background of whatever the primary plot for Irene trying to manage Hyrule is.
 - I think Zelda assumes at first this is another attack from some villain, and she probably tries to return to the castle to see what's happened and who needs help there. But she's on foot, and meets a lot of people along the way? Again there's lots of opportunity for plot and problems to be solved -- but I'm finding myself at least a little out of gas.
 - Link is going to push so many ceramic pots off shelves as a cat.
 
## Conclusion
Thank you for reading all this. I don't have a specific ask in terms of help, but I think I'm at a point where either just encouragement in the form of "this may be completely unexpected but what you have so far isn't a terrible idea" or pointed questions or suggestions for things I might be overlooking "If X has happened in your fic, what does that do to Y?" are both very welcome. Or even just asking me questions about how I see something I haven't covered in this ramble. Or telling me how you think something would shake out. All in all, I just need a bit of outside perspective and whether that's prompting from you, or your reactions, I'm sure it'll help.

Thank you, thank you, thank you,

_V._

[^defense]: In my defense I am struggling to keep the word count of this paragraph limited, so it's a more lifeless summary than the one I want to give, and I had to edit out a _lot_ of head-canons to get to this draft.

[^irene_hypertrophiedmyth]: I think Irene struggles with that hypertrophied sense of myth as well a little bit, in that she's got the ingrained cultural presumptions that go with knowing the myth of the hero too and -- subconsciously, not in any way she could put into words -- assumes Link is going to wind up with Zelda, right, so why pursue something that probably can't be? But again, I think this is extremely _sub silentio_ and not something I want to be a big part of the story so much as a little bit of subtext.

[^cycle_age]: The cycle is _much_ older than that, but I think the distorted and unreasonable expectations for Link, Zelda, and the sages in peace time are more recent historical developments in Hylian religion.

[^fair_to_zelda]: Another thing I'm also really struggling with in this story is knowing the ways I want Zelda to be a flawed character, but not having those flaws make her seem like the antagonist of whatever kind of story this is. She was raised from birth to think she and Link both had to do frankly insane amounts of work, and she is absolutely part of a system that's working the both of them too hard, but given how embedded the beliefs behind that are in Hyrule, how could she not be? And it's screwing her over too, of course.